docs: add instructions for agent upgrade (#4687)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/cluster-management/agent-upgrade-airgap.md

---
sidebar_label: "Upgrade Palette Agent on Airgap Clusters"
title: "Upgrade Palette Agent on Airgap Clusters"
description: "Learn how to upgrade the Palette agent on airgap clusters. "
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 80
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

> In connected clusters, the Palette agent gets upgraded automatically with the Palette version, unless you explicitly

Reviewer: Did you mean with Palette upgrades vs Palette version? Palette version seems a bit odd 😅

> In connected clusters, the Palette agent gets upgraded automatically with the Palette version, unless you explicitly

Author: ```suggestion
In connected clusters, the Palette agent gets upgraded automatically with Palette upgrades, unless you explicitly
```

[pause upgrades](../../cluster-management/platform-settings/pause-platform-upgrades.md). In airgap clusters, this does
not happen automatically. When you want to upgrade the agent version, you can include the new agent version in a new
cluster profile, and upgrade the cluster using the new profile.

## Prerequisites

- An active Edge cluster deployed in airgap mode.

- Linux Machine (Physical or VM) with an AMD64 architecture.

- Palette API key. Refer to the [User Authentication](../../../user-management/authentication/api-key/create-api-key.md)
  resource to learn how to create a Palette API key.

> - An Edge Native type cluster profile. Refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An Edge type cluster profile. Refer to
```
Product told us to not use the term. Edge Native in our docs. We really need to get on the same page as a company because UX is not adhering to this 😞

  [Create Edge Native Cluster Profile](../site-deployment/model-profile.md) guide to learn how to create an Edge Native
  cluster profile. You may also have other add-on profiles that you wish to attach to your cluster.

> - Content tags in your profiles highlight the exact location of container images to be downloaded.

Reviewer: Can we explain this one a bit? I'm not sure I understand what this means.

     },
     "spec": {
       "latestVersion": {
         "content": "name: stylus\nversion: 4.5.5\nbuildId: \"20241025\"\nmajorVersion: \"4.5\"\napplyFilepath: /roar/stylus/4.5/4.5.5/apply/manifest.yaml\ndeleteFilepath: \"\"\n",
         "name": "manifest.yaml",
         "path": "nickfury/4.5/4.5.5/apply/services.yaml"
       },
       "name": "stylus"
     }
   }
   ```

### Upgrade Palette Agent Version

2. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

3. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Profiles**. Select the profile you want your cluster to upgrade to.

4. Create a new version of the profile. For more information, refer to
   [Update a Cluster](../../cluster-management/cluster-updates.md).

5. In the OS layer of the profile, include the following line. Replace `versionNumber` with your target agent version
   number.

   ```yaml {9}
   pack:
     content:
       images:
         - image: "{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}"

   options:
     system.uri: ttl.sh/ubuntu:k3s-1.29.5-v4.5.8-palette-demo

   stylusPackage: container://us-docker.pkg.dev/palette-images/edge/stylus-linux-amd64:v<versionNumber>
   ```

   :::info

>    Following the EdgeForge process, it's likely that your provider image has a `peVersion` parameter. It is permissable
>    for this version to be different from the version you use for `stylusPackage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Following the EdgeForge process, it's likely that your provider image has a `peVersion` parameter. You can use a different version value in the `peVersion` parameter from the version you use for `stylusPackage`.
```

Let's avoid using "It is" and use more direct language instead. Using "It is" is probably one of my pet peeves in technical documentation 🙈
